README.md, before:

![Logo of the paxo project](logo.jpeg)

**PaxOS 8** is the latest version of **PaxOS**, a lightweight operating system for PaxoPhones. 

- [Build Instructions](#build-instructions)
  - [Linux](#linux)
  - [Windows](#windows)
  - [MacOS](#macos)
- [License](#license)
- [Contact](#contact)
- [See more](#see-more)
- [Contributors](#contributors)


# Build Instructions

The paxos offers a multi-platform emulator so that you can run it directly on your computer. In this section you will find instructions on how to build it for your operating system.

## Linux

Before you start, make sure that `git`, `cmake` and `make` are correctly installed on your computer. If not, install them using the command `sudo apt install build-essential` (if you use `apt` as your package manager).

You can then start the build instructions : 
1. Clone the directory using `git clone https://github.com/paxo-phone/paxos_8.git`
2. Move to the newly created folder using `cd paxos_8/`
3. Load the sub-modules using `git submodule init && git submodule update`
4. Compile the project using `cmake . && make`
5. Run the executable using `./PaxOS`

The emulator should then open in a window.

## Windows

Before getting started, you need an IDE and know how to setup a CMake project with custom toolchain.

1. Install CMake and MinGW
2. Setup your favorite IDE 
  'CLion' with MinGW (recommended) 
  'Visual Studio Code' with MinGW (https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/cpp/config-mingw)
3. Setup CMake using Ninja (recommended)
4. You shouldn't have to install any library (everything is included)

## MacOS

The instructions for building under macos are fairly similar to those under Linux.

Before you start, make sure that `git`, `cmake` and `make` are correctly installed on your computer. If not, you can use the `brew` package manager to install them using the following command `brew install cmake make git`.

You can then start the build instructions : 
1. Clone the directory using `git clone https://github.com/paxo-phone/paxos_8.git`
2. Move to the newly created folder using `cd paxos_8/`
3. Load the sub-modules using `git submodule init && git submodule update`
4. Compile the project using `cmake . && make`
5. Run the executable using `./PaxOS`

The emulator should then open in a window.
Press the 'Escape' key to emulate the 'Home' button.

Troubleshooting :
- If you get the message `ld: warning: ignoring file /opt/homebrew/Cellar/sdl2/2.28.2/lib/libSDL2-2.0.0.dylib': found architecture 'arm64', required architecture 'x86_64'` followed by an error you can do:
  1. `cp src/lib/SDL2-2.28.2/libSDL2-2.0.0-2.dylib /opt/homebrew/Cellar/sdl2/2.28.2/lib/libSDL2-2.0.0.dylib`
  2. Disable the quarantine for the file: `xattr -dr com.apple.quarantine /opt/homebrew/Cellar/sdl2/2.28.2/lib/libSDL2-2.0.0.dylib`
- If you get the message ` Could not find a package configuration file provided by "SDL2" with any of the following names:`:
  1. Add `-DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=src/lib/SDL2-2.28.2/` to your cmake command.

# License
This project is distributed under the CC0 1.0 Universal License. See [LICENSE](/LICENSE) for more information.

# Contact

You can contact us via our [Website](https://www.paxo.fr) or our [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/MpqbWr3pUG) server

# See more

See more on [paxo.fr](https://www.paxo.fr)

# Contributors 

<a href="https://github.com/paxo-phone/PaxOS-8/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=paxo-phone/PaxOS-8" />
</a>

Commit message:

Ajout d'instructions pour installer les packages manquant sur linux et de messages d'erreur plus détaillés en leur absence.

README.md, after:

![Logo of the paxo project](logo.jpeg)

**PaxOS 8** is the latest version of **PaxOS**, a lightweight operating system for PaxoPhones. 

- [Build Instructions](#build-instructions)
  - [Linux](#linux)
  - [Windows](#windows)
  - [MacOS](#macos)
- [License](#license)
- [Contact](#contact)
- [See more](#see-more)
- [Contributors](#contributors)


# Build Instructions

The paxos offers a multi-platform emulator so that you can run it directly on your computer. In this section you will find instructions on how to build it for your operating system.

## Linux

Before you start, make sure that `git`, `cmake` and `make` are correctly installed on your computer. If not, install them using the command `sudo apt install build-essential` (if you use `apt` as your package manager). You will also need packages `libsdl2-dev` `libcurlpp-dev`, which can be installed by running `sudo apt install libsdl2-dev libcurlpp-dev`

You can then start the build instructions : 
1. Clone the directory using `git clone https://github.com/paxo-phone/paxos_8.git`
2. Move to the newly created folder using `cd paxos_8/`
3. Load the sub-modules using `git submodule init && git submodule update`
4. Compile the project using `cmake . && make`
5. Run the executable using `./PaxOS`

The emulator should then open in a window.

## Windows

Before getting started, you need an IDE and know how to setup a CMake project with custom toolchain.

1. Install CMake and MinGW
2. Setup your favorite IDE 
  'CLion' with MinGW (recommended) 
  'Visual Studio Code' with MinGW (https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/cpp/config-mingw)
3. Setup CMake using Ninja (recommended)
4. You shouldn't have to install any library (everything is included)

## MacOS

The instructions for building under macos are fairly similar to those under Linux.

Before you start, make sure that `git`, `cmake` and `make` are correctly installed on your computer. If not, you can use the `brew` package manager to install them using the following command `brew install cmake make git`.

You can then start the build instructions : 
1. Clone the directory using `git clone https://github.com/paxo-phone/paxos_8.git`
2. Move to the newly created folder using `cd paxos_8/`
3. Load the sub-modules using `git submodule init && git submodule update`
4. Compile the project using `cmake . && make`
5. Run the executable using `./PaxOS`

The emulator should then open in a window.
Press the 'Escape' key to emulate the 'Home' button.

Troubleshooting :
- If you get the message `ld: warning: ignoring file /opt/homebrew/Cellar/sdl2/2.28.2/lib/libSDL2-2.0.0.dylib': found architecture 'arm64', required architecture 'x86_64'` followed by an error you can do:
  1. `cp src/lib/SDL2-2.28.2/libSDL2-2.0.0-2.dylib /opt/homebrew/Cellar/sdl2/2.28.2/lib/libSDL2-2.0.0.dylib`
  2. Disable the quarantine for the file: `xattr -dr com.apple.quarantine /opt/homebrew/Cellar/sdl2/2.28.2/lib/libSDL2-2.0.0.dylib`
- If you get the message ` Could not find a package configuration file provided by "SDL2" with any of the following names:`:
  1. Add `-DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=src/lib/SDL2-2.28.2/` to your cmake command.

# License
This project is distributed under the CC0 1.0 Universal License. See [LICENSE](/LICENSE) for more information.

# Contact

You can contact us via our [Website](https://www.paxo.fr) or our [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/MpqbWr3pUG) server

# See more

See more on [paxo.fr](https://www.paxo.fr)

# Contributors 

<a href="https://github.com/paxo-phone/PaxOS-8/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=paxo-phone/PaxOS-8" />
</a>
